ROUND 7
=======

Grahame and I had a weekend in Canberra, solely to see GWS v Western
Bulldogs. With GWS out of Sydney for weeks due to the Sydney Royal
Easter Show, a trip to Canberra was the only way to get GWS live AFL
action.

The game was a bit of a fizzer; GWS were pretty bad. TV coverage tells
us that Bulldogs have won 5/7 at Canberra and this win takes them to
6/8. I'm not convinced GWS are at their best in Canberra; they did
have their first ever club win there but they might not be playing
well there in recent years or in general.

Sydney Swans continue to disappoint, although they were well up in
early stages against the Gold Coast before being swamped. Next week's
Swans v GWS game might see the Swans slide into further
embarassment. Fodder for the AFL panel shows for this week.

Carlton continue their recent winning ways and overcome Geelong.
Adelaide never looked in it against Fremantle. 6/9 for my tipping and
because I've now got the Western Bulldogs wrong I no longer have a
"perfect tip" team on the breakdown. There's quite a few 6/7 though so
I have a good form line on most teams. Maybe I should do some exciting
graphing on how my tipping percentage for each team changes over time?

NRL heartbreak with two bets going down by just one leg; thanks to
Premiers Penrith being pathetic this year; last week was a false dawn
for them. I'll write a text file in the bets/ directory about this.

After last round Easter Round and this round Anzac Round I'm looking
forward to a normallish round of football; although I've down the
fixtures into my handwritten sportsbook already and there's a Brisbane
v Gold Coast game next Sunday night starting 7:20pm! A very late time
for a top of the table clash; are they competing against TV movies??

