ROUND 6
=======

A hilarious AFL tipping story for this round. In my Perl coding for
this project I'd gone to a lot of trouble to support the "Min 5" Minigame;
where if you tip at least 5 winners in a round you're still alive in
that Minigame. I'd thought from the website that this minigame started
in Round 1, however closer inspection after the round of the AFL
tipping website showed that the minigame starts in fact in Round 11!
I was breathing sighs of relief when my Round 6 tipping went from
2/6 to 5/9 with a perfect 3/3 on Sunday, keeping me alive (in my mind)
in the Min 5 Minigame, only to discover that Min 5 doesn't start for
another 5 rounds!

I was in Newcastle for poker on Easter Monday, the Geelong win over
Hawthorn pleased me and it was a good game to watch. Richmond and
Melbourne somehow won games and West Coast got desperately close
against Essendon, losing 75-77.

NRL was a bit more interesting this week. Bulldogs had a fantastically
attended match on Good Friday inside the Easter Show, beating Souths
32-0. Apparently entry tickets were a simple $10, I wish more sport
did this more regularly. Isn't surge pricing/dynamic pricing supposed
to work both ways? If they use huge stadiums like Accor Stadium they
should have a ton of cheap tickets to encourage the stadiums to fill
up.

Yimmy and I had been at the Royal Easter Show on the Wednesday before
this round started and the showjumping horses and other horse activity
has chewed up the Giants Engie stadium a lot. No wonder GWS have to
play in Canberra and elsewhere for four weeks straight while the Royal
Easter Show is in town!


