SEX, DEATH, DRUGS AND THE WORST OF TIMES

The Australian Newspaper; 17th February 2025

The Biggest scandals of the century in Australian Football
by Michael Warner

Since the turn of the century, dozens of controversies have made their
way to the front page of the nation's newspapers. We list the biggest
off-field scandals and sagas to tain the code since 2000.

1. ESSENDON DRUGS SAGA

Foot's greatest scandal broke on February 5, 2013, when Essendon coach
James Hird, president David Evans and chief executive Ian Robson
fronted a snap press conference at AFL House in Docklands to
"self-report" the club's use of "exotic substances" during the 2012
season. It was the beginning of a four-year saga that would rip the
game to shreds, destroy life-long friendships and expose the seedy
underbelly of the AFL's justice system. The Bombers were smashed -
first by being removed from the 2013 finals under a contentious deal
with the AFL - and later in 2015 when 34 of its players were wiped out
for doping by the International Court of Abritration for Sport,
forcing the league to strip Jobe Watson of his 2012 Brownlow
Medal. The drugs saga took its darkest turn in 2017 when exiled
Essendon coach James Hird attempted to take his own life. Essendon has
never fully recovered.

2. WAYNE CAREY AFFAIR

The king of football led North Melbourne to premiership glory in 1996
and 1999 before a secret affair with Kelli Stevens, the wife of
teammate Anthony Stevens, blew his career and the Kangaroos apart in
March 2002. The affair was exposed after the pair were seen together
in a toilet during a party at teammate Glenn Archer's home. Carey quit
the Roos at a teary press conference and shifted to play for Adelaide,
but his game was never the same. Tensions over the scandal have
lingered ever since. When Steven's son River was drafted by North last
year, Kelli implored the football world to move on from the saga. "The
past is where it belongs - behind us." Carey said in 2022 the affair
had haunted him for the past 20 years.

3. EAGLES DRUG CRISIS

A culture of rampant illicit drug abuse at the Eagles exploded into
public view after the club's 2006 premiership triumph, headlined by
the fall of drug-addled pin-up boy Ben Cousins. A top-secret AFL
report into the crisis laid bare the toxic nature of the drug-fuelled
crisis and the club's attempt to cover it up. Cocaine, speed, ice,
ecstasy, marijuana and prescription drugs were abused by numerous
Eagles players from as early as 1998. In an incident during an
end-of-season trip to Las Vegas, midfielder Chad Fletcher was strapped
to a hospital bed after collapsing and "flat-lining". Inexplicably the
Eaglers were never punished by the AFL for breinging the game into
disrepute. The scandal also exposed serious flaws with the game's
so-called three-strikes illicit drugs testing policy.

4. ALISHA HORAN DIES

In February 2000, Geelong barmaid Alisha Horan overdosed and died from
a lethal cocktail of alcohol, ecstasy, amphetamines and heroin in room
1265 at Melbourne's Hyatt Park Hotel after a drug-fuelled bender with
Cats great Gary Ablett Sr. Ablett was later convicted and fined for
possession and use of heroin and ecstasy. Horan's family has never
forgiven Ablett, who was inducted into the AFL Hall of Fame five years
later amid furore over whether it was appropriate. Ablett said in 2020
"I can't tell you how much that shattered me, how much it broke me as
a person. It sto;; grives me to this day."

5. CARLTON SALARY CAP

Carlton was brought to its knees in 2002 after an AFL investigation
found the club guilty of systemic salary cap breaching. Through brazen
under-the-table cash payments or elaborate company trust structures,
Blues players pocketed hundreds of thousands of dollars outside the
rules. Carlton was fined almost $1m and stripped of two seasons of
prized draft selections. Then-AFL chief executive Wayne Jackson
declared Carlton "deserved everything they got, and arguably, some
more".

